>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>FRANKLIN D.
ROOSEVELT [RECORDING]:
Yesterday, December
7, 1941, a date
which will live in infamy,
the United States of America
was suddenly and deliberately
attacked by naval and air
forces of the Empire of Japan.
The United States was at
peace with that nation,
and at the
solicitation of Japan,
was still in conversation with
its government and its emperor,
looking toward the maintenance
of peace in the Pacific.
I believe that I interpret
the will of the Congress
and of the people when I
assert that we will not only
defend ourselves
to the uttermost,
but will make it very certain
that this form of treachery
shall never again endanger us.
[CHEERS AND APPLAUSE]
>>GEORGE NOORY: I wasn't to
be born for nine more years
after that episode.
But it truly changed
the face of this planet.
That was the event that
apparently pulled the United
States into World War II.
But what really happened
behind the scenes?
Our guest on "Beyond
Belief" is Douglas Dietrich.
He is a historian.
He came to us via
"Coast to Coast Radio."
He was just a
caller at the time.
You remember those
days, Douglas?
>>DOUGLAS DIETRICH: Yes.
And very much so.
And I'm very honored to be
here with you in person.
>>NOORY: Back in 1941, it was
a different era at the time,
Douglas, where
Americans rallied around
just about anything the
president would say,
where nowadays, we're
a little more cautious.
We're a little more
suspicious-- weapons
of mass destruction,
things like that.
What happened back in 1941?
And lead us up to the
events before the Japanese
attacked us.
Because even now, I
keep saying to myself,
the Japanese people
are brilliant people.
They didn't just
attack us to attack us.
They knew better.
They didn't want to wake
up a sleeping giant.
There had to be more to this.
Give us these events.
>>DIETRICH: Sure.
Well, one of the initial
hints that the Americans were
very concerned about the
Japanese expansion into Asia
was with the
Soviet-Japanese Wars
that were taking place
in 1937, '38, and '39.
For three years in a row, there
were three massive conflicts
between the Japanese
and the Soviet Union.
And during that period
of time, Amelia Earhart,
more than likely, was
diverted during her flight
across the Pacific
to find out what
was going on in
that theater of war.
And more than likely,
she was assumed
to be a Soviet reconnaissance
pilot and shot down.
For the forensics of
that, I would refer people
to a book titled,
"Amelia Earhart:
The Truth At Last," which
details her probable demise
in terms of a
military-style execution
for someone who was
interpreted to be basically
a reconnaissance agent or a spy
who was conducting surveillance
from the air.
And it was pretty
much at that point
that both sides were made aware
of each other's intentions
and provocations in the Pacific.
Things had been going on
long before that, of course.
We could trace it all back
to Commodore Perry basically
forcing the Japanese,
under threat of invasion,
to open their doors to
American, shall we say,
investments in terms of merchant
communities and business
activities.
And that is ultimately what
led to his flag being demanded
by the Japanese to be displayed
on the battleship Missouri
at the end of the
proactive hostilities--
>>NOORY: Aha.
OK.
>>DIETRICH: --a time of
cessation of such back in 1945.
But by the time of 1941, between
Commodore Perry's black ships,
as they were known universally,
and their forced opening
of Japan, there
were a lot of moves
that made the Japanese feel
that they were being contained
or essentially
strategically threatened
by a lot of American presence.
We can see shades of
that later on during what
we remember as the
Cold War, with what
happened with the Soviet Union.
We can see shades of
that now happening
with America's attempts
to contain China
and its expansion of naval
bases into the Indian Ocean,
and also America's
attempts to contain Iran
through many of its
bases in Central Asia.
So at that time, the Japanese
were far more threatened
than China or the
Soviet Union or Iran
could ever be because the
Japanese are an island nation.
And they're entirely
dependent on maritime trade.
So as a result,
whatever impacted
them would be literally
a life or death
situation for the
quality of life.
>>NOORY: Their attack on
Pearl Harbor, Douglas,
was it what they thought
a preemptive strike?
>>DIETRICH: Very much
so, very much so.
And it had been building
up for quite some time.
The Spanish-American
War led to the Americans
occupying the 7,100 islands
of the Philippines, which
they had gained
from the Spanish.
Now, I was born in Taiwan,
which at that period in history
was an integral part of Japan.
And Taiwan and the Philippines
share maritime boundaries.
This would be the same as
the Japanese conducting
a war with, say, the
Austro-Hungarian Empire, which
ruled the Cactus Throne
and occupying Mexico,
south of the American border.
And the Americans also
set up a dictator.
And he was literally referred to
as such upon his assassination
in the city of San Francisco,
where I live today.
His name was Durham
White Stevens.
And Durham White
Stevens was an American
who was made the ruler of Korea.
The Americans had invaded and
occupied the Korean Peninsula.
This man was set up as
basically the administrator.
And the Koreans assassinated him
in front of the Ferry Building
in San Francisco.
So when he was assassinated,
the New York Times
referred to him as the
American Dictator of Korea.
Now this would have been similar
to the Japanese setting up
a puppet administrator
in Canada.
Because the Korean Peninsula
is so close to Japan
that you could drink
a beer or a soda pop,
throw the aluminum
can into the ocean,
and it'll wash up on the
beach of the other nation.
That's how close they are.
These are direct parallels
to America's borders
being compromised.
So the Japanese felt
very threatened.
And then it got worse.
>>NOORY: Did they try to
negotiate at all, Douglas--
>>DIETRICH: Yes.
>>NOORY: --while
this was going on?
>>DIETRICH: Yeah.
For a very long period of
time, there were, of course,
misunderstandings.
And there was justifiable
American concern
over atrocities in
the China conflict.
The Japanese, of course,
had invaded China in order
to establish a market
on the mainland.
>>NOORY: And that's that hatred
between those two nations now.
>>DIETRICH: Was immense.
But it's important to
remember that there was also
a lot of cooperation
between them.
The politics was
very complicated,
because China was in
meltdown at the time.
They were trying to modernize.
And the Qing dynasty
had collapsed.
So there were literally three
republics on the mainland.
There was the Communist
Republic-- the insurgency.
>>NOORY: The Mao Tse-tung.
>>DIETRICH: Yes, that
is quite correct.
And there was, of course, the
Nationalist Chinese Government,
into which nation state I was
born on the island of Taiwan.
>>NOORY: Chiang Kai-shek.
>>DIETRICH: That's
quite correct.
And then there
was what was known
as the Imperial
Republic of Yuan Shikai.
And that was actually
the oldest republic.
And it was the largest republic.
And it was the republic
whose capital was in Beijing.
The other two, Mao Tse-tung
after the Long March
had retreated to
the Yenan Mountains,
whereas Chiang
Kai-Shek had relocated
his capital to Chongqing.
But the capital in
Beijing declared war
on the United States in 1941,
along with the Japanese.
And that was known
as the Imperial
Republic of Yuan Shikai.
And he was a Han
ethnic Chinese warlord
who had declared
himself the new emperor
after the fall of
the Qing dynasty.
So that's an aspect
of that culture
that many people
aren't aware of.
My mother was half
Chinese, half Japanese.
And her father was Chinese,
but he had married her mother
in Tokyo, the capital
of the Japanese Empire.
And this was at a
time where there
was cooperation between
elements of the Chinese
and the Japanese to the point
where such a marriage could
take place.
>>NOORY: Well, where
did it break down
with their decision to
attack Pearl Harbor?
Because obviously,
they knew we were
going to come back full boat.
>>DIETRICH: That's correct.
That's very correct.
We're going to get into
some of the mechanics
of the operational
matrix of the attack.
But in terms of
what led up to it,
the Americans experienced
a massive sea change
under the Roosevelt
administration.
And as you say,
the American public
was much more homogeneous
in its identity
at that period of time.
But the reality is that
the American public,
even at a period of time when
there was a lot of homogeneity,
was actually very
divided in terms
of how to respond to all of
the heart-stopping events that
were taking place
across the Atlantic
and across the Pacific.
Many people were isolationist.
Many people were divided
along the party lines.
And what had happened was
we had a massive depression.
And there were
new movements that
were taking place in
the United States,
like the emergence of
communism and fascism
that the American public
was dealing with, as well.
So this is something
that many people today
are very unaware of,
is just how divided
the Americans were at that time.
Now during that period
of intense negotiations,
when Roosevelt ascended to power
in 1933, the exact same year
that Adolf Hitler did,
he took the Americans
off the gold standard.
And this was his attempt
to print money to the point
where he could print us
out of the Depression.
And by taking us off
the gold standard,
he did something that
essentially made the US dollar
the most liquid
currency in the world.
And by doing that,
the rest of the world,
except for peoples of the
nations such as Italy,
or Germany, or Japan and their
allies, such as Thailand,
which had its own emperor,
such as the Romania, Hungaria,
many of the Balkan and
Eastern European nations
that were beneath the
German exchange rate
system of the reichsmark
at that time--
except for communities such
as that that were economically
autarchic, the
majority of the world
pegged their currency
to the US dollar.
>>NOORY: As they
still have to date.
>>DIETRICH: To this
date, that's right.
There are many arguments
now about changing it
to the euro or the yuan.
And we'll see what happens
in the near future.
But we're entering, again,
very dangerous times, which
is why it's so important
to understand this history.
>>NOORY: It's the pattern.
>>DIETRICH: Yes.
And at that time,
what had happened was
there was a Canadian citizen by
the name of Lauchlin Currie who
had graduated from the
London School of Economics
but was a proven and
verified Soviet agent
who had been identified
and outed by the FBI.
This individual became
the economic adviser
to President Roosevelt.
>>NOORY: How did that happen?
>>DIETRICH: President
Roosevelt was
made aware of this
man's status by the FBI
and chose to ignore it.
As a matter of fact,
when the FBI moved in
to arrest Lauchlin
Currie, Roosevelt
transferred him on a
diplomatic mission to China.
>>NOORY: Get him
out of the country.
>>DIETRICH: To get him
And he stayed there for months,
representing the United States
with Mao Tse-tung's
Communist insurgency
through their foreign-relations
expert, Zhou Enlai.
>>NOORY: If I
remember, he followed
Mao Tse-tung when
Tung died, right?
>>DIETRICH: Yes.
That's correct.
He was going to be
the heir apparent.
But things changed
radically during the Nixon
administration.
And ultimately, the
capitalist roader
took over, who was
Deng Xiaoping--
took over in China
after Mao Tse-tung
and took China down the
road that it's taken today.
But in terms of
that period of time,
Zhou Enlai and Mao Tse-tung
were die-hard collectivists.
And therefore, the
Nationalist Chinese
felt very betrayed by
what Roosevelt had done.
He was obviously
supporting the Communists.
This is what ultimately led to
another phase of the Civil War,
during which the National
Chinese were ultimately
forced to retreat to Taiwan.
>>NOORY: And again, this
is pre-Pearl Harbor.
>>DIETRICH: Yes, that's correct.
That's correct.
And during that
period of time, there
was a lot of hostility
between the United
States and the British Empire.
A lot of people
aren't aware of this.
>>NOORY: Over this?
>>DIETRICH: No.
It was over Roosevelt actually
bullying the British Empire
prior to Winston Churchill
assuming the prime ministry.
Now Winston Churchill
was very, shall we say,
resented in the British
culture of the elites
because he was half American.
His mother was Jenny Churchill.
She was a US citizen.
But the monarchy did their
best to get him into power.
And it was their
machinations which ultimately
helped to establish him in
power as a wartime leader.
Because they were so threatened
by Roosevelt at that time.
Roosevelt was the former
Secretary of the Navy-- excuse
me, Assistant
Secretary of the Navy.
And during the time that
he was Assistant Secretary
of the Navy, he perfected what
was known as War Plan Crimson.
War Plan Crimson is something
that people can look up.
It's public domain now
at this point in history.
But with War Plan
Crimson, Roosevelt
recommended the
invasion of Canada
so that America could use
all of Canada's resources
and make itself truly a
global power along the lines--
>>NOORY: A military
invasion of Canada--
our neighbors to the north?
>>DIETRICH: That's correct.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>DIETRICH: And as a
matter of fact, in 1937,
the Americans held a
massive series of war games
and invested in the construction
of a series of military
airfields near the
Canadian border--
>>NOORY: Did not know that.
>>DIETRICH: --that
could've taken Canada out.
And their war games
were so immense.
They involved entire divisions.
And he mobilized
the National Guard.
And at that point,
they were all marching
around upstate New York.
And this was at a period in time
when the monarchy in Britain
was seriously
considering evacuation
of the nation due to their
war with the Third Reich.
And as a result, if he had
invaded Canada simultaneously,
the British monarchy would not
have had an immediate arsenal
of monarchy into
which to retreat.
They would have had to have
gone into the Pacific--
Australia, New Zealand,
the Indian Raj.
And so what they did was they
bargained with Roosevelt,
and they gave him
the opium market
of China, which they
had come to dominate
during the period of the--
>>NOORY: The big money there.
>>DIETRICH: Yes.
And of course, many
people have heard
of the Anglo-Chinese Opium Wars.
>>NOORY: Mm-hm.
>>DIETRICH: Distant
relative of mine--
my Chinese family
name is Lin-- so
from my mother's father's side.
And Commissioner Lin
had fought the English
during the Anglo-Chinese
Opium Wars.
He was ultimately
driven into exile.
His career was destroyed.
He's a famous figure
in Chinese history.
But in terms of the
Chinese themselves,
when the British conquered
Hong Kong, many other areas
of China, they forced
the Qing dynasty
to open themselves up to
the British opium trade.
And the British were
manufacturing cannonball-sized
balls of opium--
>>NOORY: Unbelievable.
>>DIETRICH: --in India, which
were being shipped into China.
And that entire
market, which had
floated the British
monarchy, was turned over
to the United States.
Now the United
States established
what was known as CNAC,
the China National Aviation
Corporation.
CNAC had a number of
Douglas DC-10s, DC-9s,
various other
civilian airplanes.
It has to be remembered
that China's road and rail
system was very underdeveloped.
China was a nation that relied--
>>NOORY: It was poverty, the
whole country, wasn't it?
>>DIETRICH: Much of it,
except for the coast.
The coast was very
wealthy, but many people
languished in poverty.
And the rest of inland China
was rural and basically
subsistence farming.
That was why the Communists were
able to rally the peasantry.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>DIETRICH: But in terms of
what was going on economically,
the reason that
communism and nationalism
and the new Han imperialism
cooperating with Japan--
the reason all these
movements manifested
was because of the Chinese
destruction of its civilization
under the opium trade.
But what made the
British empire so wealthy
was now being turned over to
the United States, basically--
>>NOORY: Was it reluctantly?
>>DIETRICH: Very
much so, but it was
to keep the US from invading.
>>NOORY: Interesting what
goes on behind the scenes.
>>DIETRICH: Very much so.
And what I'm saying is
what people can easily
vet at this moment and
this period in time
is public domain.
Obviously, it hasn't been
taught in history books.
But Roosevelt was very much a
threat to the British Empire.
Had he invaded Canada, he would
have launched a World War.
In order to prevent the monarchy
from fighting on two fronts,
they gave him the opium trade.
And they put
Churchill into power
to basically direct
Roosevelt's hostilities
against the Japanese and the
Germans and the Axis nations.
And at that period of
time, Churchill basically
wasn't even in power at
the time that the Americans
had established
CNAC to transport
the opium with these
massive cargo planes.
Now the Japanese, of
course, interdicted
them-- were shooting them down.
And that's what led
to the establishment
of the American volunteer group
the American Flying Tigers as
escorts to CNAC.
They were flying Chinese
colors throughout the time
that they were in conflict
with the Japanese, which
had degenerated into
an all-out war by 1937.
Now my father was a US
serviceman, a sailor.
He fought in World War
II, Korea, and Vietnam.
All three of those wars
are on his tombstone
in upstate New York.
But the reason
that his experience
is so pivotal to
this was because he
was in theater with the China
gunboat patrols at the time
that the war really
started, which
was December 13th of 1937.
And at that period of
time, the Nanjing Massacre
was taking place.
And that was a period of time in
which Communist guerrillas had
struck at the Nationalist
Chinese and Japanese peace
talks.
And the Japanese
felt that they had
been betrayed
under oath of honor
and, therefore,
reacted monstrously
to what they perceived as
betrayal by the Chinese,
until they finally found out
that many people had sighted
Caucasians in ink-blackened
Chinese coolie uniforms that
had fired on the negotiations.
And that's when the Japanese
retaliated by bombing.
Because they didn't know
whether the Caucasians
were British or American.
They bombed both the USS
Panama and the HMS Ladybird.
And it was at that
period of time
that the Americans and
Japanese disintegrated
into all-out hostilities
on the Chinese mainland.
So whenever my father came home
on leave, people would ask him,
how's the war going
with the Japanese,
just the same way people would
ask somebody returning home
from the protracted conflict
in Korea or Vietnam.
So the Americans were
already well aware
that there was a great hostility
between Japan and the United
States.
But they were as shocked by
the attack on Pearl Harbor
as if the Koreans
or the Vietnamese
had attacked during
one of those conflicts.
What makes it so tragically
ironic, of course,
is that Hawaii was not
a US state at that time.
It would not be a US
state until 1959, well
after the Second World War.
But at the time that
the Japanese attacked,
there was a military base there
where bombers were assembling.
And it was most
definitively part
of the pattern that was
leading to a Japanese attack.
Now it's important to remember
that these bombers were not
going straight to Japan
from Pearl Harbor.
They were going
They were being shipped with
the 19th Bombardment Group
to Clark Field in
the Philippines,
where MacArthur was in charge.
And they were also being
shipped from there, thenceforth,
into the China theater.
Now what happened was
that President Roosevelt
signed a document
that was JB 355.
And the JB stood
for "Joint Boards,"
which was the
equivalent back then
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
So as the executive
commander-in-chief,
Roosevelt basically
committed himself
as the preeminent war
criminal of the 20th century
by conducting conspiracy
to conduct war
in an aggressive
fashion-- exactly
what the
nationaal-socialistische
at Nuremberg were tried for
and exactly what the Tokyo War
Crimes trials were held for.
So with JB-- the
Joint Boards-- that
implies, as well, that it has
the signatures on that document
of the Secretary of the
Navy, the Secretary of War.
It was reviewed by all these
responsible parties, including
the Secretary of the Army.
And so all of them
conspired to bomb Japan.
So JB 355 is public domain
at this point in history.
People can look that up.
And it is an order
from Roosevelt
to fly out of China,
using Chinese colors,
to bomb the Japanese.
This is the equivalent of,
say, if Barack Hussein Obama,
our current executive, if he
ordered Blackwater to dress up
in Iraqi uniforms
and invade Iran.
It would be that criminal.
Now this was--
>>NOORY: Not too far
fetched, either, as a plan.
>>DIETRICH: Yes.
Yeah.
It's very frightening.
It's very frightening,
these parallels in history.
As a result, the
Japanese decided
on a preemptive surgical strike.
And they caught the bombers wing
to wing-- wing tip to wing tip.
>>NOORY: It was a
Sunday, wasn't it?
>>DIETRICH: It was.
It was.
And the reason that
they were so close
together was, basically,
they were ready for shipping.
And so these were bombers
that were going to be shipped.
Now in terms of
MacArthur, where they
are a day ahead of time across
the International Date Line,
it was the 8th.
Pearl Harbor is known as
the December 8th attack
on the other side
of the Pacific.
He was-- literally
had his planes
on the tarmac, wing
tip to wing tip,
because they were being
fueled and armed to bomb
Taiwan, the part of Japan
in which I was born.
And they caught
them on the ground
and destroyed the entire
19th Bombardment Group.
And as for Hawaii, of course,
they were ready for shipment,
so they were unarmed.
Now at that time, it's
important to remember
that the Americans had already
broken the Japanese codes.
The diplomatic codes
had been broken
by British Intelligence in 1937.
>>NOORY: So they knew
what was going on.
>>DIETRICH: Well,
the British were
able to-- they gave the
codes to the Americans.
So yes, they knew what was
going on diplomatically.
The naval security group-- the
Americans, the United States
Navy-- their intelligence
broke the Japanese naval codes
in January of 1941, obviously,
functionally a full year
before Pearl Harbor.
So they knew of the attack
and the radio communications.
So what the Americans had
organized for was an ambush.
Roosevelt did not want
to look like a fool.
He didn't want a scenario
of "at dawn we slept."
He wanted the scenario
of "at dawn we fought."
And as a result, he
set up an ambush.
So all three of the
carriers deployed
on the very day of
the December 7 attack.
And that was the Saratoga, the
Lexington, and the Enterprise.
The Enterprise was under command
of Admiral "Bull" Halsey.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>DIETRICH: And he was very
much a part of the conspiracy.
And it's important
to remember that this
was, in a very real sense, a
Federal Reserve conspiracy.
Because Lauchlin Currie
was the economic adviser
to the president.
One of the things he
was responsible for
was getting us out of Depression
by preparation for war--
by mobilization.
As a matter of fact, on
September 11 of 1941,
prior, obviously, to
the December 7 attack,
the man who would
later be responsible
for the atomic bomb,
General Leslie Groves,
was turning the spade
of dirt underneath him
in the ground-opening
ceremony for the Pentagon.
>>NOORY: Ha.
>>DIETRICH: And on
September 11th of 1941,
right across the Potomac
River, Charles Lindbergh
was protesting the
New World Order.
And at that time,
Americans very much
were mobilized for hostilities.
That's how the government
was able to get away
with so much of what it did.
For instance, in
building the Pentagon,
they cleared away a ethnic
African-American neighborhood,
Hell's Bottom, made thousands
of African-Americans homeless.
But the men were told
to join the military,
because there was a war coming.
And they knew there was a war
coming because the Pentagon was
built entirely of concrete--
not a single scrap of steel.
There was no steel cables for
elevators, no steel frame.
All of it was concrete, because
they needed all the steel
for tanks, and guns--
>>NOORY: And ships and things.
>>DIETRICH: --and
ships, and rifles.
And as a matter of fact,
the Golden Gate Bridge
in San Francisco, where I
live, used to have a monorail.
That was derailed-- literally
taken off and removed--
towards this project.
And it was very shortly
around that time
that Roosevelt actually
said publicly, he said,
I am going to
dedicate $100 billion
to building thousands
of warplanes.
Now can you imagine our current
executive commander-in-chief
coming to us?
The World War II-- $100
billion-- the equivalent today
would be trillions of dollars.
>>NOORY: Trillions, sure.
>>DIETRICH: It would
be like Obama saying,
I'm going to dedicate
trillions of dollars
to building warcraft.
Everyone would demand
his institutionalization.
They would say
this man's insane.
But Roosevelt was able to
get away with it at that time
because he had such a lock
on the American economy
through the New Deal and
providing people with jobs.
>>NOORY: And the
Federal Reserve.
>>DIETRICH: That's
quite correct.
And Lauchlin Currie had
strengthened the Federal
Reserve.
Secretary of the
Treasury, Morgenthau,
as the Secretary
of the Treasury,
was actually
running a great deal
of America's foreign policy.
And he was the one who actually
recommended that Roosevelt not
accept Jewish emigres
from the Third Reich.
And so we had a number of
people that were obviously
very negative in
their influence.
And unfortunately, the American
public was very much on guard
because the rest of
the world was at war.
And because of that, they were
responsive to this extremely
bellicose nature of
their leadership.
And what happened was the
rest of the world, of course,
was looking at this as America's
preparing to strike, but where?
And the Japanese found out.
And when they did, of
course, they counterattacked.
And the Americans were prepared
to ambush them and make them--
pretty much wipe out
the Japanese fleet
at the beginning of the war.
>>NOORY: That didn't happen.
>>DIETRICH: No, it did not.
Because when the Japanese
arrived at Pearl Harbor,
the Enterprise had
already deployed
a number of dive bombers
on Midway Island.
People can look this up.
This is actually the order of
battle that did take place.
And these were ship killers.
These were torpedo planes.
As they say, fighter
pilots make movies,
but torpedo pilots make history.
And in terms of these ship
killers set up at Midway,
they were going to
attack the Japanese task
force from the north.
And another bunch
of ship killers
had been set up on
Wake Island that
were going to box the
Japanese in from behind.
Now all of this was supposed
to look really good on camera.
The Americans were supposed
to become outraged.
So they were going to
wait for the three strikes
before they struck and
took out the task force.
The Japanese codes had
informed them, by their reading
and decrypting them,
that the Japanese were
going to have a
three-way of assault.
Now when the Japanese got
there at Pearl Harbor,
Fuchida Itsu, who
was the commander who
led the first wave of the
attack, and his pilots
couldn't believe what they saw.
And these were all
of the World War
I battle wagons lined up less
than half a thousand yards
from each other like
ducks in a row at anchor.
That would be the way that you
see a mothball fleet anchored.
They had never seen anything
like it-- even ships
set up for review.
They knew it was a trap.
They reported that
back to Yamamoto,
who ordered a retreat
after the second wave.
>>NOORY: OK.
Hit them and go.
>>DIETRICH: Right.
Because he knew that if he
stayed around for a third wave,
it would be too long.
He was determined to
hit them, because that's
what he had come there to do.
And at that point,
there was no point
in leaving without doing
damage and making a statement.
And the reason I say
making a statement
is because it's
important to remember
that the Japanese were, as
barbaric as their atrocities
were on the mainland in
China, when they were fighting
with the European powers,
they wanted to maintain
a sense of chivalry,
if for no other reason
than the cynical politics
of public relations.
And because Hawaii was
an occupied territory,
they wanted to make sure not
to alienate the native public--
the indigenous
population of Hawaii--
which was actually
quite multinational.
One of the firefighting teams
that fought the fires at Pearl
Harbor was a firefighting team
of Japanese-American women.
>>NOORY: Many were Japanese.
>>DIETRICH: Yes.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>DIETRICH: And so the
point that the Japanese
were making was more to appeal
to the population of Pearl
Harbor, that they were
fighting an American occupant.
>>NOORY: Was it a
mistake, attacking
Pearl Harbor, in retrospect?
>>DIETRICH: One could
argue about that.
But in the end, after
careful analysis,
I would have to say no because
the Japanese were conducting
a preemptive strike.
It was only rendered a
ineffective preemptive strike
because their codes
had been broken.
But had their codes
not been broken,
they probably would have
done a much more severe blow,
as they could have.
For instance, the
Japanese had analyzed it.
There was a tremendous
fuel depot--
Oahu-- known as the Oahu
fuel depot farm, basically.
It was general knowledge
where it was at.
Nobody could hide it.
These were enormous
container tanks.
Had the Japanese struck that,
they would have not only
literally blown
away Oahu as a port,
they would have set flames going
that would have consumed all
of the fuel and pretty much
denied the native population
much of its supply of
heating through the winter
and various other heating
for any necessity--
medical, et cetera.
So they didn't want to do that.
So they struck only
military targets.
But had they struck
the fuel dump,
they could have easily deprived
the Pacific fleet of fuel
to counterattack.
And the Pacific
fleet, of course,
was bombing the Gilbert
and the Marshall Islands
within 60 days.
Had they taken out
that fuel dump,
they could have interdicted
American fuel ships trying
to resupply the Pacific fleet.
And they could have
delayed an American counter
offensive for 18 months.
>>NOORY: Douglas, when
we entered the war,
did we enter it knowing we would
have atomic weapons in four
years after that?
>>DIETRICH: That's a
very interesting point.
No, we did not.
What had happened
was that as soon
as Einstein had developed the
E equals MC squared equation,
every physicist
in the world knew
that this could lead to a
tremendous concentrated release
of energy in the form of what
was then called a physics bomb.
People incorporated that into
science fiction novels as early
as the 1920s.
>>NOORY: Before we had them.
>>DIETRICH: That's
quite correct.
And people can look up old
pulp science fiction novels,
and they actually
describe nuclear exchanges
where cities are left
glowing in the dark.
There was a great general
understanding of the concept.
This was nothing new to the
American people or anyone else.
But the scientific adviser
to President Roosevelt,
Enrico Fermi, argued that it
would take 100 years in order
to get to the
point of technology
where we could develop
an atomic bomb.
>>NOORY: Boy, was he off.
>>DIETRICH: Yes.
And the Axis, on the
other hand, started
developing them right away.
And the Americans,
of course, were
left way behind until Einstein,
along with many Jewish emigres
scientists, lobbied that
a atomic bomb project get
started because the
Axis was way ahead.
So that was launched.
And the Americans had to
work with the plutonium bomb.
See, the uranium
is what the Axis
worked with because it was a
much more readily available
source.
The plutonium was
the rarest source
in the world at that time.
As a matter of fact, the entire
known world supply of plutonium
was in a single vile
that, because of--
>>NOORY: That was it?
>>DIETRICH: Yes.
That because of the
pressure in the vile,
exploded in the hands
of a technician named
Don Mastick, who inhaled it all.
And as a result--
>>NOORY: I'm sure he died, huh?
>>DIETRICH: No.
He lived to be 89 years old.
>>NOORY: He did?
>>DIETRICH: Because the entire
world supply at that time
was literally a few molecules.
And so it was so
little that it didn't
go through his digestive tract
into the rest of his body.
>>NOORY: He lucked out there.
>>DIETRICH: Yes, he did.
But the point was that they
boiled all of his fecal matter
and urine to retrieve it.
And the smell was so bad
throughout Los Alamos
that as soon as they
invaded Tinian Island
and set up the
atomic bomber wing,
he was the first civilian
transported to Tinian Island
so they could continue boiling
his fecal matter and urine
to retrieve the plutonium.
>>NOORY: Unbelievable.
>>DIETRICH: Just because the
smell was driving Oppenheimer
and all the rest of
the scientists mad.
But that's how desperate
the American effort was.
It was so far
behind, so desperate,
that that's what they
had degenerated to.
The Axis, on the other
hand, was way ahead.
But everyone knew
about atomic weapons.
Everyone knew this was
going to be a nuclear war.
>>NOORY: They wanted us
in to fight the Germans.
Was this the excuse?
>>DIETRICH: The
American administration,
obviously, under Roosevelt,
because as I described,
they were ready
to invade Canada,
he seemed-- there's no other
way to really define him--
he seemed maniacal enough where
he wanted war with anybody.
He wanted to mobilize
the American economy.
He thought war was
the way to do it.
So it seems almost
as if he didn't
care who he went to war with.
So he was provoking everyone.
And that included the Germans.
Because he was providing
the British a lot of supply.
American ships were engaging
in contact, in terms of combat,
with German U-boats.
They invaded Greenland.
The United States
invaded Greenland--
>>NOORY: I didn't know that.
>>DIETRICH: --prior
to Pearl Harbor.
And they invaded and
occupied Greenland,
which made them a direct
strategic threat to the Reich.
And people can look this up.
Greenland was under
occupation by American troops.
The Danish, because it
belonged to Denmark,
the Danish Embassy protested.
They were ignored.
So the Americans were
very much aggressive.
And in terms of Roosevelt
and his intentions,
Churchill simply
directed them in a way
that was ultimately beneficial
to the British Empire.
>>NOORY: Churchill kind of
tempered him, didn't he?
>>DIETRICH: Yes.
He tempered him and, for lack of
a better word, manipulated him.
Because Roosevelt was
obviously not sane
in the functional sense
we would consider today.
If he were alive today, he
would be dismissed as readily
as any fascist dictator--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>DIETRICH: Yeah, who was,
in terms of his speechifying.
People tend to think of him
as much more controlled today.
But many of his quotes
have been erased
from just public history.
They're out there, and
they're accessible,
such as the one that I
gave you, where he said,
I'm going to spend $100 billion
dollars to build war planes.
>>NOORY: He appeared to
be loved by Americans.
>>DIETRICH: He was not
prior to Pearl Harbor.
After Pearl Harbor,
then everyone--
including many
Americans who really
felt that he was an out-and-out
Communist, because of the way
he was treating people like
Lauchlin Currie-- many people
rallied behind the flag.
They respected the position
of the commander in chief.
But he still had many
people who resented him
because of the enormous
damage that he had done with,
say for instance,
his vice president,
Wallace, who was a
card-carrying Communist.
As a matter of fact,
President Truman
became vice president
literally about a month
prior to the dropping
of the atomic bomb.
He had never met
President Roosevelt
once in his entire
career as vice president
other than for two photo ops.
They knew they had
to get rid of Wallace
because Roosevelt was dying.
And if Roosevelt died--
>>NOORY: And they didn't
want him as president.
>>DIETRICH: That's right.
Because then they would have
an actual member of the Soviet
Communist Party as president
of the United States.
>>NOORY: Unheard of.
>>DIETRICH: And so they knew
they had to get rid of him.
So they pushed in Truman.
So it's important
to remember that
in terms of the matrix
of the attack itself,
probably the most
tragic thing to come out
of it was the sacrifice of the
sailors and the willingness
that the executive
commander in chief had
in sacrificing them towards
his own cynical political ends.
And we have to remember that he
put in a man known as Elmer H.
Davis in charge of
what became known
as the Office of
War Information.
And Elmer H. Davis was
responsible for propagandizing
much of the hatred against
people of Japanese, Italian--
>>NOORY: Hence the
internment camps?
>>DIETRICH: That's quite right.
And we all suffer from the
results of Pearl Harbor
today in many different ways.
One of the ways in
which we suffered
was the fact that the internment
camps for the Japanese
was a situation where
their real estate,
their financial property,
all of their assets
were essentially seized.
They were never--
>>NOORY: Law-abiding
citizens, right?
>>DIETRICH: That's quite right.
As a matter of fact,
the man who protested--
one of the only men
of public stature
who protested against
the internment
was J. Edgar Hoover of the FBI.
>>NOORY: Hoover?
>>DIETRICH: Yes, who said there
was absolutely no evidence
that any member of the
Japanese-American community
was acting in espionage.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>DIETRICH: And the
Department of the Navy,
to their credit,
which had operated
in Japanese waters for many
years-- prior to Pearl Harbor,
the Japanese Navy actually
protested, as well,
against internment
of Japanese citizens.
>>NOORY: Douglas, how do you
feel about the use of those two
atomic weapons on
Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
>>DIETRICH: Again, it
reveals our cynicism.
One of the things that happened
when the Japanese-Americans
were deprived of
their US citizenship
and interned, all
of the citizenship
was also deprived of
any Italian, German,
or Japanese citizens who
were overseas at the time
that the war started.
Now the reason that
Hiroshima was bombed
was because 20,000
Japanese-Americans
of US citizenship, which
had been deprived them,
were gathered in Hiroshima.
>>NOORY: At that time?
>>DIETRICH: At that time.
Because the Japanese government
put them in Hiroshima
where they could have
their own community.
And the Americans knew that
they were a massive intelligence
asset in terms of interpreting
American radio transmissions.
So as a result, they took out
20,000 Americans at Hiroshima
who happened to be of
Japanese ethnicity.
So that shows us how
cynical that was.
It is important to remember
that these bombs did not
have the effect that
many people realize.
They did not have
any military effect.
They were weapons of terror.
They were weapons of terrorism.
As a matter of fact,
the man who was
in charge of Japan's
homeland defense
was at the direct epicenter
of the atomic bomb.
And he happened to be in
a safe vault of a bank.
And he survived the blast
at point-blank range
at ground zero.
And he emerged to tell the
emperor to continue the war.
>>NOORY: But the
emperor said, no, I'm
getting out of this, right?
>>DIETRICH: Actually,
that's not the case.
And one of these
days, hopefully, we
can do an interview that
talks about the real situation
concerning the end of the war.
But the emperor
demanded ultimately
that the war continue.
And it was a tremendous
series of many threats
towards the United
States that resulted
in the cessation of conflict in
the Pacific, one of them being
biological warfare
that was going
to be delivered
by balloon bombs.
And--
>>NOORY: Here.
>>DIETRICH: Here, to
the United States.
To give you an example of
how powerful the balloon bomb
weapon was, when the Americans
in the month of March of 1945
sent well over 300--
close to 400-- bombers
with incendiary bombs
to destroy Tokyo
and to set it aflame-- by
the way, that destroyed
far more people
in terms of lives
lost than the atomic bombs did.
Now when the Americans were
bombing Tokyo, that very day,
Emperor Hirohito deployed
a single balloon bomb.
And he deployed it through a
massive rain front, no less.
Because the Japanese had sent
thousands of balloon bombs
beforehand to set
fires, by which they
were able to measure the wind
currents of North America.
He had them mapped so well.
It's important to remember
he was a marine biologist.
And he studied the
Kuroshio, the Japan current,
which goes across the Pacific
and only blows one way.
And because he knew it so
well, that single balloon bomb
took out the power lines leading
to the Hanford Dam, which
provided power to the
plutonium manufacturer.
>>NOORY: What, it smashed
into it or something?
>>DIETRICH: Yes.
It took them down, smashed
into them, took them out.
And it shut down the
Manhattan Project.
>>NOORY: Huh.
Not that he planned
to do that, right?
>>DIETRICH: He did.
He did.
And that way--
>>NOORY: Did he have that
kind of pinpoint accuracy?
>>DIETRICH: That, he did.
Because they had been
setting fire for years
to the Pacific Northwest.
Had they continued
to do so into 1946,
the American Forest
Service themselves
will tell you they would have
burned down the entire Pacific
Northwest.
This is how bad--
>>NOORY: So the
Japanese-- they were
attacking the mainland here.
>>DIETRICH: That's correct.
As a matter of fact, we had
an all African-American group
of military firefighters
known as the Triple Nickels,
the 555th.
And the 5-5-5 was responsible
for putting out those fires
in terms of
professional response.
>>NOORY: Incredible
historical information.
>>DIETRICH: Yeah.
And they were top secret.
No one knew about them.
And they were the
first American unit
to not just be
African-Americans,
but they had black officers.
That's why their
morale was so high.
>>NOORY: What lessons did
we learn from all of that?
>>DIETRICH: The
lesson that we learned
was when, unfortunately,
the internment camps were
retroactively rendered
constitutional by the Supreme
Court, that's what made it
legal to basically seize
property and detain any
citizen without warrant,
without proper cause,
without anything, anytime
you wanted for
the US government.
So NDAA-- everything
that people are
worried about today--
none of that matters.
This was all made legal by the
Supreme Court's retroactive
rationalization of
the internment camp.
Since that period
of time, it has
been legal for the US
government to do whatever
they wanted to you as a citizen.
That's one major repercussion.
Another repercussion
is our oil dependency.
By getting us into the war,
Franklin Delano Roosevelt
gave away all of our
oil, via lend-lease,
to the Soviet Union, to
China, to the British Empire.
Now keep in mind,
the British had--
this was prior to undersea
development of oil.
So the British did not have
the North Sea Oil Fields.
The Soviet Union did
not have the technology
to access its mass of
natural gas fields.
America was the Saudi
Arabia of the world.
And because of that,
we were floating
on top on practically
free oil that people
were getting sweet
crude bubbling
to the top of the ground.
In World War II, we used
billions of barrels of oil
because none of the
rest of the world
had it, or easy access to it.
>>NOORY: Boy, things
sure have changed.
Douglas, we're out of time.
But I want to thank you
for being on the program.
>>DIETRICH: I want to thank you.
And I would like people to check
into Revolution Radio, where
I have my regular program,
so they can continue
to hear me go into
detail on these subjects.
That's at freedomslips.com, from
freedom's lips to your ears.
And also, do get our book, out
now, "Roswell and the Rising
Sun."
Definitely check into that.
And I'm sure you'll be
satisfied with the real reasons
behind that incident
and how it was involved
with the war, which was
still ongoing at the time.
It didn't end until 1952.
>>NOORY: Thank you, Douglas.
>>DIETRICH: Thank you.
>>NOORY: Douglas Dietrich on
"Beyond Belief," a little bit
of history-- many
things that we just
didn't hear about
a long time ago.
[MUSIC PLAYING]